---
category: documentation
layout: documentation
title: "Components list <em>(BOM)</em>"
published: true
sidemenu: null
---

<!-- sidemenu:
    robotis: Robotis
    3dprint: 3D printing
    elec: Electronics
    tools: Tools -->


We are working closely with some beta testers to improve the robot and ensure its efficiency. The current version of the Poppy is under beta testing, you cannot buy it but you are free to buy each components needed to build your own Poppy. Yet, we do not recommend it and do not guarantee it will work :)

So if you got our green signal or if you really want to be involved in the project right now, you will find here everything needed to build a Poppy.

First you can find a Google spreedsheet with all components.

<div class="text-center">
<a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Avq9MlqcWxlNdGpjY1RwbDMtSDJJSlVpM1VhRkVLVUE&amp;usp=sharing" class="btn btn-success btn-lg" role="button" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-table fa-fw"></i> BOM spreadsheet &raquo;</a>
</div>

<br/>
<div class="alert alert-info">
+ Shoes! You have to find baby shoes in a local store. The poppy feet should fit the size 21EU/12cm.</div>

<div class="alert alert-warning">
<strong> Quantity: </strong>This BOM list includes only the bare minimum! Think about taking additional components, about 20%, to make sure you will not be blocked if one of them breaks.</div>

## Notes
The Robotis Dynamixel motors are expensive but they are still easily breakable :/
They can easily melt if they have to support high torque for long time. Currently, there is no security in the PyPot code to avoid breaking. So if you do not want to change a motor every time you use Poppy, please reduce the [maximum torque](http://poppy-project.github.io/pypot/pypot.dynamixel.html?#pypot.dynamixel.motor.DxlMotor.torque_limit) output to 70%.
By using these precautions we have only broken, on average, one engine per year.

The current open source distribution of Poppy does not include all the head electronics. The design is still a prototype and it cannot be easily reproduce and it is not really effective **so we decided to not share the electronic design it for the moment**.
The Poppy electronics architecture is the main development challenge for the public release. It is our priority and we are spending the most of our development time on it.
**In the forum, we will share our issues and questions. It is the place to help us by sharing your experience. It is also the opportunity for you to ask for new features or needs. For example if you think about other sensors or if you want extension plug, etc.**