---
layout: documentation
category: tutorial
title: Playing with Poppy 101
<!-- author: matthieulapeyre -->
---

TODO: Introduction

In this 101 tutorial, we will explain how to produce the first moves of Poppy using [the pypot library](www.github.com/poppy-project/pypot/).

## Installing pypot

The PyPot package is entirely written in Python. So, the install process should be rather straightforward. You can directly install it via easy_install or pip: ``` pip install pypot```
or ```easy_install pypot```

For more information about the pypot installation, please refer to the [pypot documentation](http://poppy-project.github.io/pypot/installation.html).


## Poppy configuration file

With pypot you can easily create a [configuration file](http://poppy-project.github.io/pypot/controller.html#writing-the-configuration) for any robot using robotis dynamixel motors.


>The configuration, described as a Python dictionary, contains several important features that help build both your robot and the software to manage you robot. The important fields are listed below:
>
>- **controllers**: This key holds the information pertaining to a controller and all the items connected to its bus.
>- **motors**: This is a description of all the custom setup values for each motor. Meta information, such as the motor access name or orientation, is also included here. It is also there that you will set the angle limits of the motor.
>- **motorgroups**: This is used to define alias of a group of motors (e.g. left_leg).

In the following we will describe how to build the [one of Poppy](https://github.com/poppy-project/poppy-software). To do so we will create a Python dictionary called ```poppy_config``` and we will specify the configuration for controllers, motors and motorgroups.

### _Setup your dynamixel controller configuration_

Poppy has 2 communication bus, each has a USB2AX dongle. The first thing to do is to detect this dongle on your PC and edit the field "port":

```
poppy_config['controllers'] = {}
poppy_config['controllers']['lower_body_controller'] = {
    "port": "TO_SET!!"
    "sync_read": true,
    "attached_motors": ["legs"],
}
poppy_config['controllers']['upper_body_controller'] = {
    "port": "TO_SET!!"
    "sync_read": true,
    "attached_motors": ["torso", "head", "arms"],
}
```





